feat(M&B): Migrate pricing models (#4888)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/metering-and-billing/pricing-models.md

---
title: "Pricing models"
content_type: reference
description: "Reference for the pricing models available in {{site.metering_and_billing}}, including flat fee, usage-based, tiered, package, and dynamic pricing."
layout: reference
products:
  - metering-and-billing
tools:
  - konnect-api
works_on:
  - konnect
breadcrumbs:
  - /metering-and-billing/
  - /metering-and-billing/product-catalog/
related_resources:
  - text: "{{site.konnect_short_name}} {{site.metering_and_billing}}"
    url: /metering-and-billing/
  - text: "Rate Cards"
    url: /metering-and-billing/product-catalog/#rate-cards

---

With {{site.metering_and_billing}}, you can implement various pricing strategies to meet your business needs.

> The currency for all pricing models is set based on the related plan.

Author: This is incorrect, the customer won't have access to a plan if it's not in their currency.

  - parameter: Stripe Tax Code
    description: Select a [Stripe product tax code](https://docs.stripe.com/tax/tax-codes).
{% endtable %}

## Tiered

Tiered pricing is a model where fees vary between usage levels. 
{{site.metering_and_billing}} supports two types of tiered pricing:

* [Graduated pricing](#graduated-pricing): Charge each unit according to the tier it falls into.
* [Volume pricing](#volume-pricing): Charge customers based on the highest achieved tier.

### Graduated pricing

Graduated pricing is a model where you charge each unit according to the tier it falls into.

For example:

{% table %}
columns:
  - title: First Unit
    key: first_unit
  - title: Last Unit
    key: last_unit
  - title: Unit Price
    key: unit_price
  - title: Flat Price
    key: flat_price
rows:
  - first_unit: 0
    last_unit: 1000
    unit_price: $0.3
    flat_price: $0
  - first_unit: 1001
    last_unit: 5000
    unit_price: $0.2
    flat_price: $0
  - first_unit: 5001
    last_unit: "∞"
    unit_price: $0.1
    flat_price: $0
{% endtable %}

In this example, a customer with 6,000 units would be charged as:

```

> (1000 * $0.3) + (4000 * $0.2) + (1000 * $0.1) = $300 + $800 + $100 = $1,200

Author: ```suggestion
(1000 × $0.3) + (4000 × $0.2) + (1000 × $0.1) = $300 + $800 + $100 = $1,200
```

  - parameter: Usage discount
    description: Number of free units included before billing starts.
  - parameter: Percentage discount
    description: Reduces price by a fixed percent across all usage.
  - parameter: Minimum commitment
    description: The minimum amount the customer is charged per billing period, regardless of usage.
  - parameter: Maximum commitment
    description: The maximum amount the customer is charged per billing period, regardless of usage.
  - parameter: Tax behavior
    description: Select from inclusive, where the listed price already includes tax, or exclusive, where the tax is added on top of the listed price. See [Tax calculations](/metering-and-billing/product-catalog/#tax-calculations) for details.
  - parameter: Stripe Tax Code
    description: Select a [Stripe product tax code](https://docs.stripe.com/tax/tax-codes).
{% endtable %}

## Dynamic

Dynamic pricing is a model where USD prices are created dynamically from meter values.

With the dynamic pricing model, meters track cost rather than usage. 
The price is calculated based on the underlying meter's value, optionally with a markup rate applied. 

> The currency used is the customer's currency.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* One-time fee pricing is a model where you charge customers a fixed amount for a product or service. This is typically used for installment fees or setup fees.
* Recurring fee pricing is a model where you charge customers a fixed amount at regular intervals, such as monthly or annually. This is a common model for product subscriptions.

The following table breaks down the options for configuring a flat fee pricing model:

{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Parameter
    key: parameter
  - title: Description
    key: description
rows:
  - parameter: Billing cadence
    description: Select the interval at which customers are billed for their usage, either recurring, or select "One time" to only bill once.
  - parameter: Payment term
    description: |
      Select whether the fee must be paid in advance (at the beginning of the billing period), or in arrears (at the end of the billing period).
      <br><br>
      Not applicable to one-time fees.
  - parameter: Price
    description: Price in the plan's configured currency.
  - parameter: Percentage discount
    description: Reduces price by a fixed percent across all usage.
  - parameter: Tax behavior

>     description: Select from inclusive, where the listed price already includes tax, or exclusive, where the tax is added on top of the listed price. See [Tax calculations](/metering-and-billing/product-catalog/#tax-calculations) for details.

Reviewer: This might work better as a list. I'm not sure if that's supported by the tables syntax.

  - parameter: Stripe Tax Code
    description: Select a [Stripe product tax code](https://docs.stripe.com/tax/tax-codes).
{% endtable %}

## Usage based

> Usage-based pricing is a model where you charge customers based on the number of units they use, as reported by the meter.

Reviewer: A link that covers the concept of a 'meter' in Kong would be helpful where it is first mentioned.

      Set to **Volume**. The price of all units is determined by the highest tier reached.
  - parameter: Tiers
    description: |
      Define pricing tiers by setting the first unit, last unit, unit price in the plan's configured currency, and an optional flat fee per tier.
  - parameter: Usage discount
    description: Number of free units included before billing starts.
  - parameter: Percentage discount
    description: Reduces price by a fixed percent across all usage.
  - parameter: Minimum commitment
    description: The minimum amount the customer is charged per billing period, regardless of usage.
  - parameter: Maximum commitment
    description: The maximum amount the customer is charged per billing period, regardless of usage.
  - parameter: Tax behavior
    description: Select from inclusive, where the listed price already includes tax, or exclusive, where the tax is added on top of the listed price. See [Tax calculations](/metering-and-billing/product-catalog/#tax-calculations) for details.
  - parameter: Stripe Tax Code
    description: Select a [Stripe product tax code](https://docs.stripe.com/tax/tax-codes).
{% endtable %}

### Flat prices in tiers

> With tiered pricing, you can define per unit or flat fees in each tier. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With tiered pricing, you can define flat fees for each tier in addition to unit pricing. 
```

Maybe adjust this sence since this is an inclusive 'or'

Package pricing is particularly effective for:

* API services where you want to simplify billing by offering fixed-size bundles.
* Storage services where you want to sell storage in predefined chunks.
* Compute services where you want to offer processing time in fixed blocks.
* Any service where you want to simplify billing by avoiding per-unit calculations.

Let's look at examples with a package size of 20 units and a price of $10 per package:

<!--vale off-->
{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Usage
    key: usage
  - title: Calculation
    key: calculation
  - title: Total Price
    key: total_price
  - title: Explanation
    key: explanation
rows:
  - usage: 0 units
    calculation: 0 packages × $10
    total_price: $0
    explanation: No packages needed as there's no usage
  - usage: 20 units
    calculation: 1 package × $10
    total_price: $10
    explanation: Usage fits exactly in one package
  - usage: 20.1 units
    calculation: 2 packages × $10
    total_price: $20
    explanation: Additional 0.1 units requires a new package
  - usage: 98 units
    calculation: 5 packages × $10
    total_price: $50

>     explanation: Usage requires 5 full packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rows:
  - usage: 0 units
    calculation: 0 packages × $10
    total_price: $0
    explanation: No packages needed as there's no usage.
  - usage: 20 units
    calculation: 1 package × $10
    total_price: $10
    explanation: Usage fits exactly in one package.
  - usage: 20.1 units
    calculation: 2 packages × $10
    total_price: $20
    explanation: Additional 0.1 units requires a new package.
  - usage: 98 units
    calculation: 5 packages × $10
    total_price: $50
    explanation: Usage requires 5 full packages.
```

This option is available for usage-based, tiered, package, and dynamic pricing models under **Advanced Settings**.

When a pricing model has a usage discount configured, {{site.metering_and_billing}} applies the discount to the metered usage first, then applies a fee to the remaining usage.

For example, if a customer's metered usage is 1,000 units, the usage discount is 900 units, and the per-unit price is $0.1, they will be charged:

```
(1000 - 900) × $0.1 = 100 × $0.1 = $10
```

{:.info}
> Usage discounts are applied before percentage discounts.

If the customer in the example above also has a percentage discount of 10%, the calculation is:

```
(1000 - 900) × $0.1 × (100% - 10%) = 100 × $0.1 × 0.9 = $9
```

To define a flat fee for usage before the overage fee, add a rate card with a flat fee alongside the overage fee rate card.
For simple usage-based pricing, you can achieve the same result by creating a tiered pricing model with a flat fee in the first tier.

## Set up a pricing model

To set up a pricing model, you must have:
* [A feature](/metering-and-billing/product-catalog/#features)
* [A plan](/metering-and-billing/product-catalog/#plans)

> To set up a pricing model on a rate card:

Reviewer: For some of these steps it would be useful to refer back to the tables of available parameters above or to https://deploy-preview-4888--kongdeveloper.netlify.app/metering-and-billing/product-catalog/#features (similar to my comment about meters above)
